[MUSIC PLAYING]
[SIREN WAILING]
[CHEERING]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Yeah, because we talked about it.
I think it was in the previous episode.
It might have been the one before it, but--
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
Yes.
Out of Blade Runner.
Big news this week.
It's all that.
It's--
What happened?
Who is it?
Fucking Hans.
Yeah.
Hans Zimmer.
So how are they doing it this late?
Isn't it coming out like--
That's what everyone wants to know.
Yeah.
You got Zimmer.
Hey, god Zimmer.
Yeah, Zimmer's going to crank it out overnight, I guess.
Wow.
Yeah.
I mean, originally Zimmer wasn't involved, but he was like second name, you know, and some
other guy who I'm not familiar with.
So he's been the alternate all along?
I mean, is that how this works?
Well, no, he wasn't like the alternate.
He was just like assisting.
Gotcha.
You know, I guess kind of like the Tron soundtrack.
Like that was primarily Death Punk assisted by the Zimmer man.
Yeah.
He added some funick strings behind the--
Right.
--the Death Punk stuff.
Yeah, so I don't know.
Maybe he was doing something like that.
But yet now it's all him.
It wasn't the big reveal after the Dark Knight that he just uses Zebra.
He has all that crazy ass gear, and he basically just uses Zebra.
He used Zebra a lot, like he revealed it in those videos, but he also uses some real string
player.
Oh, okay.
Because they showed him in some of the behind the scenes stuff, like going to town on strings.
He himself?
Like he's playing--
No.
This dude that he works with, he was doing all the crazy string stuff, and then I guess Hans
was just kind of using that along with some stuff and Zebra.
But it's that weird thing, like the picture of the studio and that studio is just like
insane.
Like it just-- it looks like a fake painting.
Yeah.
Like it's like this like perfectly ideal Victorian studio, and then it's like-- and it's just him
squatting over a computer using Zebra.
Yeah.
You want to see him use the fucking wall of modular stuff?
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, I don't know.
I don't have a problem with Hans, but I do have a problem with the fact that it's going
to be last minute now and rushed.
Remember that first time he did that soundtrack?
And then he did the same thing for everyone after?
Yes.
I feel like there's just like-- it just sounds like him.
It's like him.
The Dark Knight.
Yeah.
I don't--
Yeah, there's just not a lot of variety in what he does, but I'm just a little disappointed
that this is now going to sound like every other movie made over last time.
Yeah, a string sound.
Epic--
Yeah, Epic Swell.
Or Sound of a ticking clock.
It's an anxious moment.
It's tense.
You can hear a clock ticking for the last 10 minutes in the background of the soundtrack.
Time is important.
He did it again.
And Dunkirk.
Yeah.
Like halfway through the movie, it might even have been like through the whole movie.
I don't know because my brain just started to like block it out, but there's like that constant
ticking in the sound.
It sounds like a stopwatch.
Yeah.
And a constant single string note going in the background.
For tension.
You know?
It's like--
Yeah, I get it.
Yeah.
And it's building.
He should have to only use a CS80 to do whatever he does.
Or a Deckard stream or a CS80.
Deckard stream seems really appropriate.
Yeah.
I mean, that would be.
That was it, no, I'm coming.
That wasn't.
No.
We didn't play it.
I don't know why.
I was just like, yeah, I don't even want to like it.
It scares me.
You know?
But it's a kit.
Yeah.
You can build it as a kit too.
And it's for everything but the enclosure I saw, it's like 350 bucks.
All the slide.
You still got the enclosures like no joke.
But you can buy that from some other company.
And then it's like 1100 bucks built, which is like a 30th of the price of what a CS80
would be, I think.
Yeah.
They're like 30 grand or something.
I mean, when they pop up.
Yeah.
When you can get one, that would work maybe.
I ended up playing with pretty much everything I walked past except for the world of romplers.
Yeah.
And that was one, I did the same thing.
I'm like, yeah, that's cool.
Yeah.
I'm fine with not falling in love with it.
The only thing I'd want to do with the CS80 is just make the Blade Runner just sound strange.
That's kind of what they were doing in the trailer already.
I'm pretty sure that was Johan's work.
Because it sounded very much like the evangelist score but it was like, you know, that's weak.
And I'm like, okay, if this is how all the soundtracks are going to be from movie, I'm totally fucking into that.
But then I don't know if it's going to be all strings now, like we're saying as well.
I don't know.
Like, why did they get rid of Johan?
You know what I mean?
Good question.
His people released no info, said they can't do it in the days.
So it's like, what the fuck happened?
I mean, I've not heard of that guy as like an asshole.
I mean, I don't follow him closely but like it's not like he's a notoriously hard person to work with or anything.
Dude, it seemed like everyone was excited that he was involved.
Yeah.
Because I feel like every fan of Blade Runner had that concern initially.
Like, okay, all movie concerns aside, how's the sound going to be?
You know what I mean?
Like, what's the soundtrack going to be like?
And when they announced him and then the trailer came out and it sounded excellent.
It was like, okay.
I can roll with this and now he's just like last minute kicked out.
So, what the fuck?
I guess I'm not going to follow up on.
Like, we did the knock on hype.
Now what about the follow up criticisms?
I'd like to give a little, I want to say shout out because that's what like people work say now.
So that means it's over.
Mmm.
That's dead.
What's in the accolades?
Let's just go with the classics.
Not kudos.
No, not like kudos.
Yeah.
Wasn't that a candy bar?
It was a candy bar for a while.
Big ups.
Yeah, big ups.
Okay, let's go big ups.
Props.
Props are big ups.
Listeners, you choose.
Synth Cube.
They ran the ornament and crime build workshop and the dude Raph ran it fucking astounding.
I cannot recommend anyone who's interested in like doing DIY stuff, basically all skill
levels.
Had a lot of SMT parts, showed everyone how to do it.
People obviously had in the group and maybe not necessarily done a lot of stuff or any
at all.
I now have a working ornament and crime.
It was overall a positive experience except for this is not their fault.
One of the people in the group was a colossal asshole.
Oh yeah, that fucking dude.
So it's sort of at the beginning and it's the bottom floor of knob.
Like the hotel and they'd move the bug out room to right beside it, which made perfect
sense because it was like, you know, it's out of the way.
They could, you know, roll out.
Exactly.
So they're sound checking.
It was like early in the morning on Sunday and then they're sound checking because they
were going to start at one and you could hear it.
It wasn't outrageously loud, but it was like, oh, you can hear something going on, but like
you could still hear people talking in this room.
This dude beside me is like getting agitated and like every time the sound would come
on and he would, oh, what is this?
What is this?
The whole time I'm thinking, you're going to fucking synthesize your convention.
Like you're going to hear sounds.
No one promised perfect, peace and quiet.
You came to the wrong fucking place.
If you go up into the main room, it's just buzzing and weird sounds and commotion.
It's going back and forth for about a half an hour.
Like he's not really working on it because every time like the sound would come on,
like he'd put everything down and go like exasperated like, oh, I can't work in these
conditions.
Like he's a fucking pro golfer.
So he like, so one point he stands up and just storms out and like, like, you know, that's
sort of like three, two, one, the sound in the next room goes out.
I'm like, are you fucking, did he seriously?
And sure enough comes back in proud as a fucking peacock.
Like his chest all puffed up.
He's like, I won't, I will not be made a full of and sits back down just so fucking proud
of himself.
Like he showed those kids.
So thankfully a little one made a louder dude.
I've been like, oh, fuck.
So I had to leave early was supposed to be a 10 noon and then it was going to be a break
and then from one to two would be the second half.
But Eric, the dude who ran the bug out room, super cool guy, asked me in Nick if we wanted
to play in the bug out room at one.
It's like, cool.
I wasn't really what I didn't really want to stay for the workshop the whole time.
It was like, cool.
So like I went back, got my stuff, pack up and I go over to the bug out room about one
o'clock starts and a little bit after that we started playing and even we started playing
I'm like, oh shit, that workshop just started up.
I bet that dude's just sitting over there.
I'm like, it but it's gonna come yell at me about how long into us playing.
Did he show up 15 minutes about 15 minutes into it and I look over and it's him.
His fucking chest is all puffed up.
Just walks over like right in front of everything like like right where we're playing.
Do you do you hear what he actually said?
I mean, I know he was yelling because he just had the look of like just an like an angry
old dude yelling at people to get off his lawn.
All I heard was Mike, the guy that we were playing with at one point looks over.
He's like, oh that dude wants us to turn it down.
So I started to turn it up.
He's still there.
Instead to stare at him while we turn the bass up more and it's like more and more sound
and of course he wouldn't like look over and I just wanted him to because it was early
and I was fucking ordinary at the time.
So like this dude's like, you know, a synth convention dude.
This is like the room that has big speakers that's dedicated to making sound like yeah,
put some fucking headphones on man, do something like you're the only fucking person complaining
on this whole thing.
Maybe whole fucking hotel.
You have one jack up.
Things he speaks for everyone.
It's just like I couldn't possibly be the only one that has a problem with this.
No, but he did leave and we didn't turn down.
No, no, we didn't turn down.
Turned down for what?
That was the only that was the only downside of that entire workshop, which again, not
since cubes fall.
Always takes.
There's always gotta be one, you know.
Or other highlights.
I'm trying to think.
Oh, the noise engineering booth.
Oh, yeah.
The man is Sateratos, which was as they self described at nine inch nails in a module,
which sounds pretty good.
Nastier bass, it's like all sawtooth wave based in a few different modes, like a little filter
onto it.
It seemed more like kind of a mini synth voice.
Yeah, kind of like bass, but had the thinking how to low pass filter on it or some shit
too.
It sounded good.
All the rest of the Roland boutique synths were there and we got to play with those.
Yeah, the D05 was the big surprise at that point because they debuted the D50 clone,
which is just like, you know, that's in I think 80s synth.
Yeah, the D50.
L.A.
Synthesis or whatever.
It sounded like it can be very fucking cheesy.
Yeah.
Forward sounds or like swirly pad stuff.
What's holding the gimmicky little joystick?
Yeah, it did seem like the, they had the studio, studio electronics one, which sounded really
good, but the knobs on it were like fucking garbage.
Really felt like super flimsy and small.
The 101 sounded, that was the like definitely the best built.
It's a little cramped, but it sounded really good.
I got to say though, go back to the SE02.
I had all the demos online just made it seem like real like bread and butter, like not
that exciting.
It's a SE02 supposed to be.
It's studio electronics was like here is the circuit.
It's kind of a mini Moog clone.
That's what I thought.
Okay, because it looked like one.
Here you go.
Put it in your box roll.
Okay.
They did all the circuitry and were like convert this design over to surface.
Why is Roland making a Moog clone though?
Good question.
I mean, it sounded like, like what a weird, it's a strange collab.
Yeah.
You know, like.
But it sounded, it sounded way better than that.
I mean, definitely not up my alley.
Like I'm not tempted to get it.
I get coupled demos of it.
It did sound nice, but again, I'm not into Moog sounds.
But based on the videos I saw, which made it just sound incredibly boring, playing with
it live, it had a lot more teeth and thought it was going to happen.
It has cross mod too between the oscillators, which I don't think you can do on a Moog.
I'm not really familiar with Moog's either.
I've never really had one or used one much.
I think it just sort of mentioned it just in the fact that it was surprisingly sounding
better than it was.
Yeah, it's cheapest of luck, right?
Not the very day the Moog clone.
Totally.
Yeah, way cheap.
And they're good circuit design.
So they'll sell millions of these things.
I would think so.
I don't know, because it's not, it's the least sexy of the ones that they put out.
Like it's just very.
But it's Moog.
Everyone likes that sound.
But the demos are really bland.
Yeah.
They're not doing themselves any favor with these demos they put out.
But even the D50, it's like the same shitty kind of button editing of the old one.
Like they didn't really make it any better.
So I guess if you want that sound, it's like I saw people on muffler a little bit.
We're like, oh, this is the one I've been waiting for or something, which is like,
well, I don't understand you at all.
But that's cool if you want that.
Lego well made the demo like they got him to make a video of it.
And because he likes that and he can probably patch it really well and make that electro
kind of stuff like old school 80s throwback stuff.
So I could see it in that light, but that's not, I don't think what any of us are going
for.
And I had one SHO one because I went to the Roland guy who, it was cool to talk to him.
I talked to the guy who led the team who leads the team that makes the boutiques like super
polite Japanese dude was awesome to talk to.
And he's like, no, we don't have any here.
There's one over at Synth City, which is like what Fox tones used companies called now.
Okay.
Same people basically.
And they were like, yeah, we had one and it was gone four minutes, five minutes like
sold and bought like, ah, okay.
Damn.
Cause I think the way they said it was like, Oh, we were leaving to pack up for this.
And there was a Roland box in the hallway.
We were like, Oh, what's this?
And they just pulled like an 808 and an SH one out and left and kind of brought it to
knob con.
So I'm honestly surprised that they didn't make this a two O two.
Yeah, because they're going with small form factor.
The two O two was already a small form factor one at one without keys.
So like, why not just reproduce the two O two?
That's a good question.
Yeah.
Maybe the one at one is a little bit more notorious.
Yeah, that's a people know what that is.
Even if not a synth nerd.
True.
That is true, dude.
Cause even a few years ago, you could get a two O two on eBay cheapest fuck.
Yeah.
Nobody knew what the fuck it was.
Like until I think like a faxed one mentioned like that he loves his two O two and then all
of a sudden everyone was like, Oh, shit, that's just like a small one on one.
It's like, yeah, no shit.
And boy to Canada.
Yeah.
Cause I remember when I when I went on one shit itself, I was like, well, maybe I'll just
get a two O two and I should have fucking jumped on it, dude, because they were so cheap
on eBay at that time.
It was like, well, you're fighting.
I know you're doing some visual stuff.
The other thing was the the erogenous tones structure module.
Yeah.
And I was like, oh, I'm blowing the hell's that?
You could load like 3D models onto it that you could project with the module.
You can control them with CV or audio and you could load like custom shader code for
the 3D models.
And that's like the shaders that would apply to those meshes or whatever objects you're
loading in there.
And it had a little PlayStation controller joystick on it and you could map anything to
that.
And it was like the movement of the joystick and it was he had like a simple feedback patch
and then was playing back some stuff and it was like some of the best video shit either
of us were standing there like jaws.
And it's just one module.
This could be the first and potentially only thing you needed to hook video stuff up to
your modular rack.
The main mecca.
Yeah.
Oh, right.
That sounds like something that would be a good partner with it.
Yeah, absolutely.
Getting like a two channel video mixer and mixed between the two type of thing.
You didn't get an ETA or at least aid from it, but it was not crude.
I think it might be pretty soon.
We both saw it and we're like, oh, Nate cake would like shit his pants over this basically.
Yeah.
It was like loading these models and twist them like it seemed like he would go nuts
on it just based on the stuff that he makes.
Cool.
Seemed like all the video stuff was next level and even the Saturday night stuff where
they had people playing music the best part by far was the video synth stuff that was going
along with it.
Dude had an LCX system and they had like multiple feedback loops going with different monitors
and shit and it was awesome.
Nice.
Like it was really good.
It was also the the Paul Shriver experience.
Yeah.
Noob con annual festivity of talking to Paul about whatever he's cooking up the 352 and
the E370 which are his new oscillators the 352 is pretty much the king of wave table
oscillators right now as far as like single voice wave table with a bunch of it's an extension
of his 350 morphing terrarium and the cloud generator which was the 340.
So it's both of those plus a bunch of stuff to op FM application to load your own wave
tables via SD card and the editor is unreal editor.
Yeah.
It's 16 bit stuff instead of eight bit now like the old stuff was and just amazing and
then the 370 which is the four voice version of that which is more limited from control
standpoint you only get two controls for each voice but you can assign them to a bunch
of stuff and that does through zero FM and a sampler which just got even more when somebody
on.
So it's not a secret anymore.
Yeah.
Not really.
Okay.
He had it on there so it can be a sampler in each one of those four channels on the big
one.
The guy that made that VCV that open source modular synth program made the editor.
That was mind blowing shit.
Sounds amazing.
I love it.
You have one.
I have one.
We've both had them since not coming.
I squeezed mine in two nights before I had that show.
It was not hard for me to figure out a way to use it live.
I was nervous about slapping something into my rig so last minute you know I mean because
there's definitely things I don't know about that model yet and I was like I'm going to
fuck something up.
It's not surprising though because even when you took yours back to the hotel room after
you picked it up within minutes you're making shit.
Like there's a lot of deep stuff in it.
But you were minutes away from just making awesome sounds.
Yeah it's so straightforward and he's got like a little manual in there.
There's an about screen if you're going to use it out of the controls like he really
thought like alright let's just make this so you can pick this thing up and use it in
a few minutes for as deep as it is.
Like he kicked ass on that one.
Yeah the screen's actually it serves a purpose other than eye candy.
Yeah.
It's very useful to the interface and to just like figuring shit out.
Totally.
Like I spent an hour with it and I felt like I wrapped my head around every option within
it.
You know within it I was even changing the colors of shit on it already and you know
I was like yeah I was like this thing sweet.
It made me want the 370.
Yeah.
I'm like this is one voice.
You know and it's that powerful and has that much potential like I can't imagine a module
that has four of those embedded in it with more options.
Yeah there is one bummer about the 370.
What's that?
It's crazy fucking expensive.
Yeah.
Especially now after the promo is over it's like $400 more or like $1400 I think it was
going to be.
Yeah.
And he had it there for like $950 or something like that.
It's not cheap but it's like you get a ton of stuff.
I mean that could be your oscillator.
I was just saying it's one of those modules where like you wouldn't need another one to
oscillator.
Like I think a lot of people build systems around like a voice and I feel like this is
the first one that would satisfy me.
I mean just with the 352 alone I'm having a blast with it and I can easily see having
another one paired with it.
It's the only oscillator in my live rig right now.
As soon as I got it I kind of redid the rig.
I want them on.
I don't know.
I have the syncatur in there also but.
Gotcha.
Just for like some extra help.
Yeah it was my main oscillator driving the show.
And it fms really well too.
You can really nail it with really high frequency fm and it doesn't break up like some digital
modules well it's really really clean.
I think it's all 24 96 internally or something like that.
Yeah it sounds as loud as fuck.
Yeah it really does.
Very.
I mean in all honesty Paul's kicking ass right now.
You can tell I mean that is why braids was discontinued is that module right there.
Yeah period he even came out and put his post on there which was kind of sad Olivier
and it's like there are people out there doing it better and I didn't realize that braids
is like very close to the price of that actually it's not far.
Yeah braids new is 399.
Yeah and that's for 50 or 469 now that's like no brainer you're going to get the 352
if you know you know no question.
I agree.
So I literally pulled my braids out of my live rig the night that I caught that I was
like this this thing's going in.
Yep I rearranged it to fit it because it's obviously bigger than a braids but.
But it's laid out really nicely it's not cramped.
It's really nice to use live it's got CV attenuators on all the inputs which the 350
and 340 never had which people would complain about all the time and he was always like I
just use attenuators so he even didn't listen to people his first designs didn't have those
in and he put them in which is pretty cool.
I saw that you could pick any wave you know standard wave shape I'm like cool and then
got into like all the the more crazy yeah the morphing wave shape I was like this is amazing
like this is this is next level shit.
That into the rain maker and it's just some lovely shit.
I haven't even fucked with like the FM or anything.
I haven't too much either.
It'd be really hard to get something better than that.
It's going to be hard when it's off.
You just read the more.
Yeah and let's see you raise this is our part.
53 is going to be pretty good.
It was his other thing he's making another bigger module and he's like it's going to
be a conglomeration of stuff I've already made.
That was the one.
I'm going to make another big one and he's also going to make the CS 80 filter which he
had an MOTM format forever and there's a Euro one coming out that's like that kind of
size I think no screen but just a lot of controls and I think that's like I don't know
I don't know about the CS 80 filter I don't know much about it but it has those capabilities
whatever they are.
Not super familiar.
Not many other big crops for offering the panel in black.
Yeah and now he's like oh it'll always be available in black.
That is awesome.
Yeah it's so nice especially with the screen with black.
It's a nice contrast yeah super pleasing and the editors fucking amazing.
You can make the stuff you can do with waveforms in there you can't do with most other programs.
I haven't fucked with it or yet.
You can do like wave folding of any other waveforms you put in there just select by frequency
band and you can map like straight up sample in one of the banks and it'll just like traverse
it and play it like a sample back.
It's pretty sweet.
What kind of control do you have?
Are we talking like you can do granular stuff with it?
I think well you can do.
It's just playing a straight wave file and you can pitch it.
It's just anything you can do with any of the morphing realms I think it just kind of treats
it as one of those and you just do it so it scans it.
Can you make a cloud out of a sample?
I don't know.
I think so.
I don't see why you couldn't just raise his questions.
There's a lot to feel like I'm just scratching that thing the surface of it.
Yeah we thought we took it back to the hotel room and we thought we found a bug and how
the CV input's working he was just shaking his head like no no no.
This is how it works.
Okay I didn't fucking know.
Here's a C6 dumpster can cooze.
Let me throw it in the pile.
That was like oh yeah.
Great great human being.
I'm actually really curious about the filter.
He makes that discreet filter.
The three I don't know.
Whichever one it is.
It was like the famous MOTM form.
Right.
I'd like to try it.
It's supposed to sound really good but I got to crack into that ornament and crime.
Oh that's just fun.
I've spent an embarrassing amount of time just staring at that OLED like fuck.
That's cool man.
Yeah are you even listening to it right now?
I'm just looking.
I'm just experiencing it man.
Just like the less age just waves.
The four outputs of the ornament crime going into the 352 and looking at the 3D waveform
view on there.
That's like yeah I'm gonna lose some time with that.
I've been practicing a lot for our lives yet and I've got coming up and I'm starting
to learn associate the visual in the 352 with what I'm trying to get back to them.
Oh I know this waveform is like it looks like this and you can say presets in the 352
which is awesome.
You get like eight of them or ten.
So that's been super helpful for me and I just visually know like oh this is modulating
this.
I got to turn these modulations down to get it to look like this again.
I keep thinking like the one thing I could use is a switch but then I keep going back
to like I'd love a system of switches where I could just like turn this setting and it
would be like boom now you're going here now this bolt proctor signals go into this
module instead of this one.
Almost like a like a routing board.
Exactly.
Yeah I don't know what that doesn't exist but that's still like how do I manage that
stuff live and how can I be faster with it.
Right.
That's when it leads me to like maybe you need some switches or something.
Yeah like set that shit up.
What's that synth that has like the peg board?
Oh the.
Routing with just pegs of something.
Yeah but something along those lines of just having that matrix of routing options right
there and then just plugging in like a telephone switchboard.
Yeah if you could do that and then just hit like save and then save your preset and then
pull that shit out and start it again.
That would be.
You guys kind of describing the matrix group.
You're right.
Kind of aren't we.
Clearly we all need matrix.
Yes.
I think Hinton might make that switch matrix too.
Or a must have a crazy matrix.
Yeah.
DCA matrix maybe that was it.
What else?
Yeah electron drive.
Yeah yeah.
I can discuss that for a second.
And a digitact.
You got two of them.
Two of them.
I have two things I can bitch about.
You know what though?
You don't have an electron keychain.
You do.
We have we got an electron keychains because a f*** and knob gun made a booth.
Ahh.
They're metal.
They're real f***ing nice.
You know what?
Yeah they're pretty sweet.
You're really missed.
I'm a little jelly now.
That's what you should be.
Yeah it was nice to talk to the electron dude.
Yeah super cool.
What did they have there?
Did you guys get the f*** with the heat?
Digitact.
Heat.
Drive.
Is that f***ing with my drive?
I'm still curious about the heat.
He said that when he was leaving he was like all the octatracts were just like on their
way.
The octatract mark twos.
And then he said the...
Oh you have news about that by the way.
Yeah they're trig conditions.
Which is funny because even Devin even though he does more distributor stuff he was like
oh no the codes which is what he told me in Detroit last year he was like the codes
full there's no room but they apparently found some room to put trigger conditions
on the micro timing screen which would be fine like go into micro timing and set it
up like that you know like we were saying that adds a lot to the octatract.
That adds a lot.
Especially because you can...
That's recording triggers too the way the octatract works and it was immediately like
f***.
Yeah.
I'm just like a few years as soon as I buy a digi-tack because I ruled out the mark two
octa.
That's what I thought about it immediately.
Yeah I was like God f***ing...
I heard that and was like Greg's gonna beat this.
Yeah.
As soon as you told me I just shook my head.
Really?
Like for real?
Was it like the night you got that to the tack?
The same night.
Yeah.
Yeah well for the price I'm still happy with the digi.
Because the mark two octa is gonna be at least double the cost of a digi.
And right now I'm kinda happy with the digi.
Everything that I've bitched about in previous episodes, specs wise about the digi and why
I was on the fence of buying one, I still stick to.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Like everything that I thought would bother me about it is.
Multiple outs bugs me.
Like the lack of multi outs is pissing me off.
What I have been doing is trying to split stuff off.
Left right.
Just basically get to channel.
Yeah.
Which is pain he asks and I shouldn't have to do in 2017 with a fucking sample.
I mean if you look at that though, I mean the back of the board is pretty filled in.
It is.
It's relatively small.
And I would have been cool with it being slightly bigger if it would have had multiple
outs.
Yeah even do the VGA connector like DB25 or whatever and do like make me buy a cable to
have eight outs.
That's fine but like.
Poor just have one input.
I don't understand why there's two inputs.
Yeah.
That can all record.
I'm like what?
Yeah.
I just still there and I'm like am I missing something like why is there two input like
I still don't understand it.
Even using assignable mono out would have been great.
Yeah compared to like the like you said the two inputs like thanks for mixing that for
me.
I don't really fucking need that.
But I do like the size about it.
I feel like that's a good pro.
Yeah.
It's so fucking tiny because my desk is getting filled.
But OS complaints first off the filter.
It doesn't even have a band pass and you can only have low pass or high pass.
I'm like you can't have both.
You can't squeeze a band pass in there.
That frustrates me.
No EQ.
Yeah no EQ so you're relying on the filter which can only be low pass or high pass.
Which especially hurts when you don't have multiple outs if you can't EQ it internally
than you're kind of fucked.
Yeah.
It's like oh I need a route to a mixer.
Oh but I only have one stereo.
So yeah that's frustrating.
But I was the same situation as you that one the second night I had it or used I made like
95 samples of like a year.
Which like I hadn't done that and with anything for a long ass time.
Exactly.
I haven't done that either.
Since I used to bounce stuff out of reason.
Yeah.
I looked at my old sample it's been like six years since I've made a pack of drum sounds.
You know what I mean.
Yeah.
But yeah it was instantly inspiring me to do that.
What the hell else was bothered?
Big hit spring for a few different effects.
Oh polyrhythms dude.
You can't fucking do polyrhythms with it.
What do you mean?
Like you can't set the sequencer to be different lengths per track.
Oh you can.
Yeah.
Am I missing?
When you go if you hit function and what's that far right thing.
Track or whatever.
The page?
Yeah function and page.
Yeah.
Then it says hit function yes to split this out into multiple tracks.
No shit.
I'm going to kick you to the other screen.
Yeah it took me a little to find that too actually.
Totally missed that.
That was bothering me a little.
I should not have made it.
Okay.
Well that's good to know.
Yeah.
Yeah but can you set each track to a different resolution.
Oh.
No.
I don't know it's one divider for everything so you don't get different speeds.
Okay.
Because I did like the fact that you could divide but I would like to do that per track.
Yeah.
It kind of kills it if you can't do it per track.
It's always something.
I think I found this bug in my rhythm.
I was telling this to Dave.
So if I have a sample on a channel and I save something I bring it back up the next
day.
Sometimes the sample will be super distorted and I'm like what the hell.
There's no overdrive, there's no filtering, nothing going on.
So I'd reset the sound.
I load the exact same sample on and then it sounds clearest day.
And I'm like there's no difference between anything that I've done here.
Yeah.
And it only happens on certain sounds because I'm like what the fuck is that distortion
or it sounds like bit reduced or something and I'm not using that.
So I don't know.
Yeah I don't know what the deal is with that.
I could run it in the snacks with the rhythm.
Bad were your snacks, were they crashing snacks or things weren't working 100% right or just
irks?
Both.
I haven't had any crashes.
That was a thing for a while.
I know you did.
It seemed like it was pretty prevalent for a while but have they fixed all those?
For me it hasn't crashed in years.
And I consider that to be one of the more reliable.
Oh I hope they get the digit act to be as reliable as the rhythm.
Which I think they're getting close to right now.
I know some people are still having problems but I can't.
I don't know.
I know some of those people are like yeah I'm not going to upgrade the firmware because
this one still works for me.
I'm like were you talking about a fucking problem?
Maybe you're using the latest one.
That makes no sense.
Exactly.
Software developer.
You know what's in that new version?
It fixes for the problem you're complaining about.
Exactly.
Because I haven't had any problems with digit act as far as reliability.
Even the first time I hooked up the little thing to transfer samples and shit I just
assumed that was going to be a nightmare.
Everything just popped up the way I wanted to.
I've been practicing a lot using it for all the media of this live set and everything.
It's been dead solid.
It was a little confusing again going back to like maybe it's because I haven't had
electron products in the past.
Figuring out like of this page is where I set the channel and this page is where the
list is.
Oh they made it's more complicated on the digit act than it's on any of the other pieces.
Because you have that pattern level mutes.
Right.
Global mutes.
Yeah.
And then when you're chromatic you have to be out of the mute pages and there are a few
things like that to kind of remember.
It wasn't the end of the world but it was one of the things where like that was the
compared to the sampler side.
Where I was just like oh this is super intuitive and I need to go to the manual.
That was the first time I was like okay I need to go to the manual.
I need to figure this out.
Kind of pissed that they don't have the instant pattern switching from the rhythm.
Where you could just boom immediately next step jump over to another pattern.
Especially with the digit act being all digital.
Yeah.
It's easier to like swap that shit out.
I kind of was surprised actually because I assumed it was going to be the opposite.
Like I was going to hit pattern switch and it was going to do it right away.
I hope they can add it because at first they've been like no but won't do it.
And it's like well that's on your last drum machine and that's one of my favorite features
of it.
So Greg you have another piece of electron gear.
Yeah I got the drive.
Which I like.
I got it for a hell of a deal.
How are you using it so far?
I'm using modular through it.
I'm running the digit act through it.
My other drum machines.
Like I've just been experimenting.
Running everything through it.
Like I do anytime I get a new piece of distortion gear you know.
Right.
Send everything through it.
Try to come up with interesting chains.
Does it take modular level pretty well?
I haven't any problems with it.
Oh cool.
Yeah like it's definitely, things definitely go through it differently.
Like depending on what model distortion you're using and where you have your input gain
at and things like that and how hot the signal is.
So I'm liking it overall.
Some of the different models on it are a bit I guess redundant.
Like there's not a whole lot of deviation between some of them.
There's just like three that really sound different from each other.
And I like them.
Makes me want to get a heat.
I do not want to spend $800.
Like yeah.
That's how much they are.
Yeah.
They're like 750 plus shipping at most places.
Yeah it's kind of insane for a distortion pedal.
Like this is basically heat.
Why an extra.
That's insane.
Why an extra input and input and the follower makes it twice the price.
I don't understand.
My eventide eclipse was like a thousand dollars.
Right.
And that's like ocean of fucking facts including distortion.
So yeah in light of that that's tough.
So yeah I mean as much as I would like a heat I think I'm just going to be content with
my drive at the moment.
It's ugly.
I think it looks like shit.
It's a very beige.
It looks like a max.
Why does it have a three different stomp?
One is your active non active.
Okay.
Because it doesn't have a dry wet knob like the heat does.
It has the on off for the effects basically.
No shit.
No dry wet.
It's a bypass switch and the other two are for presets.
But I have the preset mode turned off.
Cycle through presets or how does it work?
Or do you just have one loaded cycle through?
Okay.
I'll like up and back or whatever.
Yeah.
Like there's a knob at the top.
You can disable preset mode and then you just freestyle it and that's all I use because
that's not complicated.
If you're standing on stage.
You have four knob.
Yeah I guess if you're staying on stage you want to say guitar pattern.
Yeah.
Which I'm not doing.
Right.
I'm going to reel it out for what I want to do with it.
The EQ is pretty nice for helping to bring out your harmonics I guess.
The base EQ sounds good and the mid can be used as like a cut basically.
You can have that cut or boost and then you can sweep that the frequency of it.
Yeah.
This is just 3D man.
I mean him a lot.
Yeah.
I still want to run the master through a heat really.
You know what I mean?
Maybe unless you're using it very subtly.
Which I see people do.
Like in at least interviews.
They're like I take this archer track and at the end I run it through the heat.
I'm like oh that's like I'd be curious to hear the A and B of that.
Yeah.
And see what it's putting in there.
But I haven't yet running a lot of shit through drive.
I've been using it more than some of my other distortions now already.
I'd like to because I feel like my review of the drive was kind of boring.
I did want to talk about the 4MS STS.
Yeah.
You had mentioned it at the last podcast.
I like it.
I used it live a lot.
I feel like the OS still needs a lot of work.
I mean it's definitely not like archer track in a box or anything.
What would you like to see?
Simple stuff.
Like the fact that when I turn it off and turn it back on it doesn't remember what sample
I was on or what settings.
Is that going to be software solvable or is that a path?
I think so because I actually emailed Dan for a mess.
I said dude I got a life set coming up.
Is there any way to make this remember where I was you know a power off and he didn't reply
for a long time and I thought he was just going to like not respond and then the other
day you just sent me a reply saying I hope to implement this in the future.
Oh.
Nicely cool because that would be very useful because like some stuff I had like bank B set
for like reversed and things like that for the first sample that I wanted to use like
you know the first song I knew that I wanted this sample and I wanted this sample and I
wanted this one reversed and like I had to set that up at soundcheck every time and
when I turned the modular off like after soundcheck and I turned it back on I'd dial
that in again real quick and I was like shit.
Overall how many like button presses is that to get that set up?
To get to the bank I was in like five.
That's double-end or there's a base when you turn it on and then I like I always know
I got like attorneys a logarithmic turn this the second bank B but it's two seconds like
it's not it's not a burden.
Yeah I mean it wasn't really a burden it's just.
But if there's enough of those steps you're going to forget one of them.
Exactly.
And that's nerve-racking for what's like a few bytes of data to store some preferences
for which sample you're on and whether it's reversed or not.
It'd be like a bit mask I mean it's literally almost no data.
Yep.
I haven't used it for live recording yet which is one of the main reasons why I thought
I would like it.
Yeah.
But instead I've just been bouncing things to the card.
I really like the idea like when you first started talking about getting this the idea
of using it as like a like a version of like a loop or type thing.
A loop or pedal in a module and if you experiment with using it like that or not at all.
You're just so into using it as a sampler.
Yeah I've just been so into having the ability to do that in my module or now without any
issues like I can just put stuff on the card go to it trigger it the way it wants.
Now do you think having the Digitack and adding that into the mix is going to maybe
free up or free up the 4MS to do things a little differently?
Yeah.
I think so yeah because I have the Digitnow which is basically going to be like my sampler
drum machine.
STS I plan for using weirder stuff.
Cool.
Motulated, heavily modulated sample manipulation.
A mangler and for long one shots like I was doing live.
It's a choir samples and stuff that I was mangling live that was all coming from STS.
That way I could have things like you know a rhythmic structure on the terraze stuff
that was more freeform on top of that I was triggering with the STS with weird like probability
triggers coming from the variegate and things like that.
That's kind of exactly the split I found with the Digitack in the 301.
Yeah.
Especially for live use because at first I was like practicing and I'm like oh this
301 this is out for live.
I'm going to leave it in the case but this is way too much.
I started to realize like oh you can just trigger a long sample or do something that's
heavily mangled.
Get around the 1LFO problem and at least be able to throw a bunch of CV at the sampler
in there so it's starting to work its way back in like in light of that.
I did find a bug which was already patched though thankfully but I didn't have time before
the show to patch it.
My samples kind of got rearranged.
Something that you put on the card is color coded.
You know what I mean?
You name the folder like color whatever dash your name just so you keep track of it.
Yeah.
For some reason it duplicated a couple of the folders once it like booted up and was reading
the folders.
So like white bank 1 and like red bank 2 were no longer what I named them.
So like white bank 1 got duplicated.
So that became bank 2 also.
So then the rest of my color structure was fucked.
So I'm like trying to memorize what samples were and what color and it had been rearranged.
And I'm just like fuck.
I'm like yeah I'm going to the banks and I'm like this isn't making the sounds that
I remember it should be making and it was kind of a bunch.
Wait would you discover this?
The day before the show.
So it wasn't at the show.
It wasn't like doing sound check because that's where I would have had a.
I didn't have time to like do anything about it because it was like the night before but
yeah like.
But the very least it wasn't.
I was still trying to figure out alright this isn't blue anymore.
This is purple because that comes next and like you know because I had wiped out all
the factory shit on like it comes with hundreds of samples from people like Richard Vine and
even basic has like a couple banks and it's filled with samples and I was like that's
great.
Don't want any of this on it.
I just like immediately wiped it out wiped out the folder structure and like started creating
my own you know color coded folders of shit and I was already trying to memorize all that
in time for the show and then at some point the first bank got duplicated and it just
screwed my entire structure and I couldn't remember what was what so I had to like play
it by ear live.
I was like okay it's not the right bank that doesn't sound right and I just like bounce
to the next bank you know.
I know it's on here.
Yeah.
I just got to get somewhere.
But yeah.
Well you you hid those seems really well.
I did not notice that nor did I notice you panicking.
Yeah.
I was actually trying to find the next oh god words of that you look cool as a cucumber.
Thanks.
That's right.
Weird expression.
I mean it was all full of sounds that I would like to use live so it's not like I was triggering
like oh this is my happy hardcore sound that doesn't fit here you know it was all stuff
that could have fit into the live set anyways so like me bouncing around with shit kind of
worked out it could have been worse and then I came back and I saw that he had already released
I think it's version 1.02 now which I think fixes that.
I will give Dan a lot of props for the like folder structure on there.
I think it's kind of strange that you can only do 10 samples per bank.
Ten is also weird because it's not like eight or 16.
Yeah I don't understand the reason for that maybe just because like it's easy to fit a
resolution of 10 places on the knob.
Oh maybe in my opinion though like lose the knob at that point.
Yeah.
Go with like a rotator and a little LED.
And then you just have any number of them and you know where the end is going to be and
it's going to just cycle back to zero.
And then you have a number of reference.
Yeah I think that would have been a much nicer design.
It would have increased the cost to have two LEDs.
I'm sure.
But I don't know.
And it would not jive with the rest of his format.
Like he's come out with a bunch of new modules that all have that like format.
They're all symmetrical down the middle of that kind of thing.
And it's cool I dig it you know and I like the fact that it's fairly simple to navigate.
You don't have to get lost in key combos.
There are some but they're not like morphogene level confusing.
You have two buttons to do two hundred different things.
Because I remember like that was the killer for morphogene.
Like I think that's a great module and just a fucking horrible interface.
Like if they would have just done a better interface with that module I would still have
one in my rack and I would be using the hell out of it.
So it's like a case study on like bad UX.
Like people should be studying.
I mean it's make noise dude.
I bitch a lot about make noises interfaces and a lot of people love them.
So I don't want to trash it too much.
But yeah I feel like that module in particular extra bad.
Well it sounds like a variation of that is now working with this 4MS module.
Yeah.
Yeah I like it.
The sound quality is good.
No complaints in that regard.
And you can CV everything and do some really cool stuff with it.
I like it a lot.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Jesus.
Look at this module I built.
It'll never make sound, but every once in a while,
I put on my headphones and I go beep, beep, beep.
(laughs)